CHINA...
THE WORLD'S MOST
POPULOUS COUNTRY.
A BOOMING NEW
ECONOMIC SUPERPOWER.
A COUNTRY BUILT ON
10,000 YEARS OF CULTURE.
THE HEARTLAND OF
WORLD BUDDHISM,
CRADLE OF TAOISM,
CONFUCIANISM,
AND MYRIAD
FOLK RELIGIONS.
A HISTORY OF BRUTAL
RELIGIOUS REPRESSION.
AND NOW THE LARGEST
RELIGIOUS REVIVAL
IN HUMAN HISTORY
IS SWEEPING CHINA.
TRANSLATOR: THIS
IS A GOLDEN TIME
FOR RELIGION
IN CHINA.
>>BUT IN A COUNTRY WHERE
RELIGION OFTEN SPELLS
REBELLION AND
REPRESSION,
ONLY FIVE
FAITHS ARE LEGAL.
CHINESE HISTORY IS
LITTERED WITH EXAMPLES
WHERE RELIGIOUS MOVEMENTS
HAVE BECOME POLITICAL.
TRANSLATOR: IF YOU DON'T
FOLLOW THE SOCIAL ORDER
YOU WILL BE PUNISHED.
TRANSLATOR: WE WERE
BORN TO BE BUDDHISTS.
WE ARE THE CHILDREN
OF THE KUAN YIN BUDDHA.
>>CHINA'S AUTHORITARIAN
RULERS ARE
FREEING RELIGION; BUT
CAN BEIJING KEEP CONTROL
OVER THE SOULS OF A
FIFTH OF HUMANITY?
>>AFTER DECADES OF
OFFICIAL ATHEISM,
RELIGIOUS FERVOR IS
EXPLODING IN CHINA.
TRANSLATOR: I THINK THAT
THE GOVERNMENT WANTS A
HARMONIOUS SOCIETY AND
RECOGNIZES THAT COMMUNISM
AND BUDDHISM PROMISE THE
SAME HARMONY AND PEACE.
>>WONG LING IS A
32-YEAR-OLD TOUR GUIDE.
HER JOB IS TO SHEPHERD
THOUSANDS OF PILGRIMS HERE
TO PUTUO ISLAND, ONE OF
CHINESE BUDDHISM'S HOLIEST
PLACES ON THE COAST OF
CHINA, SOUTH OF SHANGHAI.
LITTLE KNOWN TO
THE OUTSIDE WORLD,
DESPITE ITS COMMUNIST
ATHEIST GOVERNMENT,
CHINA HAS A HUGE
BUDDHIST POPULATION.
THE KUAN YIN FESTIVAL
IS ITS MECCA.
TRANSLATOR: BUDDHISM IS ABOUT
ASKING PEOPLE TO BE KIND.
I HAVE BECOME A
BUDDHIST TO HELP OTHERS
WITH A PEACEFUL
AND HAPPY HEART.
IT MAKES ME HAPPY
TO HELP OTHERS.
>>IT'S MISS WONG'S JOB
TO HELP GET THE FLOOD
OF PILGRIMS TO THE
TOP OF MOUNT PUTUO -
THE MYSTICAL MOUNTAIN
WHERE A TEMPLE FOR
KUAN YIN WAS BUILT IN
THE 15TH CENTURY.
AT DAYBREAK MISS WONG
IS UP WITH HER FLOCK,
MARSHALING THEM PAST
RANKS OF POLICE
TO THE TEMPLE AT THE
FOOT OF THE MOUNTAIN
WHERE THE ISLAND'S
SENIOR MONK
URGES THE
PILGRIMS ONWARDS.
THEN IT'S THROUGH THE
FOREST AND UP THE MOUNTAIN.
TRANSLATOR: I
CAME HERE BECAUSE
I HAVE VERY
BAD KARMA.
I HAVE HAD HEALTH
PROBLEMS FOR MANY YEARS.
>>MRS. XIO CHO TING IS A
70-YEAR-OLD PILGRIM FROM
FUZHOU, A CITY HUNDREDS
OF MILES DOWN THE COAST.
SHE'S A RETIRED
CIVIL SERVANT,
FRAIL FROM MULTIPLE
HEALTH PROBLEMS.
TODAY SHE WILL CLIMB THE
1,000 STEPS TO THE TOP OF
MOUNT PUTUO TO SEEK KUAN
YIN'S BLESSING OF HEALTH
AND ENTRY INTO NIAPON,
CHINESE BUDDHISM'S
VERSION OF NIRVANA.
IT IS A DAY SHE HAS
LONG DREAMT ABOUT.
TRANSLATOR: IT'S
MY BAD KARMA.
I COMMITTED MANY BAD
THINGS IN PREVIOUS LIVES.
I NEED TO REFLECT AND ATONE
BECAUSE OF MY BAD KARMA
AND MY HEALTH IS
GETTING MUCH BETTER NOW.
>>BUT AS HER GROUP
CLIMBS THE MOUNTAIN,
MRS. XIO SOON
FALLS BEHIND.
THE LONG CLIMB PAST
BREATHTAKING VIEWS
BECOMES AGONY
FOR HER.
THOUSANDS FROM ALL ACROSS
CHINA COME HERE TO WORSHIP
AT THE FEET OF THE
GIANT KUAN YIN BUDDHA.
THEY ARE SUPPLICANTS TO
BUDDHISM'S SYMBOLIC GIVER
OF SUCCESS, FERTILITY,
AND FAMILY HARMONY.
MANY OF THE PEOPLE
HERE ARE YOUNG,
BUT THEY ARE RETURNING
TO THE OLD WAYS.
AROUND THE EDGES OF THE
CROWD AND SPRINKLED
THROUGHOUT IT ARE RANKS
OF POLICE AND MILITARY,
WARY PARTICIPANTS IN THE
MASSIVE RESURGENCE OF
BUDDHISM, TAOISM, AND
TRADITIONAL RELIGIONS
NOW SWEEPING CHINA.
A BILLION CHINESE ARE
ESTIMATED TO SUPPORT
BUDDHISM IN THE FACE
OF OFFICIAL ATHEISM.
THE GOVERNMENT NEEDS
RELIGIONS TO PROMOTE
NATIONAL UNITY, BUT
KEEPING CONTROL
IS THE TOP PRIORITY.
THE POWERFUL MEN ON
THIS STAGE ARE SOME OF
THE KEY BUSINESS AND
POLITICAL LEADERS
STEERING CHINA'S
RELIGIOUS REVIVAL.
MANY OF THE TELEVISION
CAMERAS HERE ARE
BROADCASTING LIVE ON THIS
MAN'S WORLDWIDE NETWORK.
IN THE FACE OF AN
OVERWHELMING RELIGIOUS
REVIVAL THROUGHOUT CHINA,
EVEN ITS COMMUNIST RULERS,
SWORN TO ATHEISM,
RECOGNIZE RELIGION
MAY BE UNSTOPPABLE.
MANY PEOPLE HERE CAN
VIVIDLY RECALL A FAR
DARKER TIME WHEN THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT PURGED
THE TEMPLES AND RELIGIOUS
LEADERS WERE EXECUTED
AND PERSECUTED AMIDST
A FRENZIED PERIOD
KNOWN AS THE
CULTURAL REVOLUTION.
DURING THE 1970'S
MANY OF THE TEMPLES
HERE ON PUTUO
ISLAND WERE DESTROYED.
MONKS WERE DENOUNCED
AS PARASITES.
BUT IN THE EARLY 1980'S
THE GOVERNMENT RECOGNIZED
VIOLENT SUPPRESSION
OF RELIGION
WAS POLITICALLY
DANGEROUS.
RELIGIOUS LIBERALIZATION
HAS GAINED SPEED SINCE THEN.
ACROSS CHINA THE TEMPLES
ARE BEING REBUILT,
BUDDHIST MONKS ARE AGAIN
REVERED, THE TEMPLES ARE
FILLING WITH MONEY, AND
PILGRIMS LIKE MRS. XIO
CAN ONCE AGAIN
WORSHIP FREELY.
WHEN MRS. XIO REACHES THE
TOP OF THE MOUNTAIN,
HER SOUL ITSELF
SEEMS TO SMILE.
THE TEMPLE AT MRS. XIO'S
FEET IS ONE OF THE WORLD'S
GREAT HOLY PLACES.
SHE HAS COME HERE
FOR THE KUAN YIN
BUDDHA'S BLESSING,
AND FOR HEALING.
TRANSLATOR: MORE
AND MORE YOUNG PEOPLE
ARE BECOMING BUDDHISTS.
THEIR FAMILIES
ARE HAPPIER.
EVERYTHING IS
EASIER FOR THEM.
MY FAMILY HAS
BECOME HAPPIER.
OUR PRAYERS HAVE
BEEN ANSWERED.
BUDDHISTS DO NOT
DARE DO ANYTHING BAD.
NOBODY CAN BE CORRUPT
WITHIN BUDDHISM.
BUDDHISTS HAVE
THREE COMMITMENTS.
NOT TO KILL, NOT TO STEAL,
NOT TO COMMIT ADULTERY.
IF YOU OBEY
THE COMMITMENTS
THE WHOLE COUNTRY
COULD BE PROSPEROUS.
>>AT THE HEART OF
CHINESE BUDDHISM
IS A CONSTELLATION
OF TEMPLES -
SOME MODERNIZED AND
INCREASINGLY MATERIALISTIC;
SOME STEADFASTLY
TRADITIONAL.
BUT THE SOUL OF THE FAITH
IS THE STORY OF THE BUDDHA
- AN INDIAN PRINCE TURNED
PROPHET WHO RENOUNCED THE
MATERIAL
WORLD, SEEKING SPIRITUAL HARMONY
25 CENTURIES AGO.
TRANSLATOR: IF YOU
ARE ALWAYS SEEKING
MONETARY SATISFACTION,
YOU ARE VERY GREEDY.
IF YOU ARE GREEDY, YOU'LL
VIOLATE BUDDHIST TEACHINGS.
>>MASTER GUAN HUI IS A
27-YEAR-OLD NOVICE MONK.
SEVEN YEARS AGO HE
RENOUNCED THE SENSUAL WORLD
TO COME HERE TO LEARN
THE OLD WAYS IN ONE OF
SHANGHAI'S MOST
TRADITIONAL TEMPLES.
TRANSLATOR: I WAS
INFLUENCED BY MY FAMILY
TO GET TO KNOW
BUDDHISM AS A CHILD.
AND THAT LED ME TO THE
DECISION THAT IT WOULD BE
A GOOD THING TO
BECOME A MONK.
>>AT THE FA ZANG JIANG
TEMPLE IN SHANGHAI'S
MARKET QUARTER, MASTER
GUAN'S DAILY LIFE
STARTS IN ANCIENT
RITUAL AND REVERENCE.
(CHANTING)
TRANSLATOR: BUDDHISTS
SHOULD NOT SEEK
MATERIAL ENJOYMENT.
IF YOU HAVE THIS
KIND OF DESIRE,
YOU HAVE TO
CONTROL IT.
ACCORDING TO BUDDHISM,
ONLY LUCKY PEOPLE
WITH GOOD KARMA
CAN BECOME MONKS.
WHEN YOU BECOME A MONK
YOUR HEART IS PURIFIED
AND YOU BECOME PEACEFUL.
THEN YOU WILL THINK
ABOUT SERVING HUMANKIND.
>>THE MAIN BUSINESS OF
THIS TEMPLE IS HELPING
GUIDE THE SPIRITS OF
THE DECEASED TO HEAVEN.
FAMILIES FROM ALL ACROSS
THE CITY COME HERE
TO ASK THE MONKS TO
PERFORM FUNERAL RITES.
THE TEMPLE WAS
BUILT IN 1924.
OFFICIALS CLOSED IT
FROM 1965 UNTIL 1994.
IT'S BEING REPAIRED,
BUT THERE'S STILL
A LOT OF DAMAGE.
TRANSLATOR: THE
GOVERNMENT HAD TO PERSUADE
THE FACTORIES, WHICH HAD
THE RIGHT TO USE THIS LAND,
TO LEAVE.
IN 1958, DURING THE GREAT
LEAP FORWARD, WE LENT
OUR LAND TO THE FACTORIES
TO SUPPORT SOCIALISM.
>>MASTER GUAN HUI
IS THE HEAD MONK
PRESIDING OVER THE
TEMPLE RESTORATIONS.
TRANSLATOR: THIS TEMPLE
WAS DIFFICULT TO RE-OPEN
BECAUSE IT IS IN THE
CENTER OF SHANGHAI
IN A DENSELY
POPULATED AREA.
IT TOOK US A LOT OF TIME
AND A GREAT EFFORT,
BUT THE GOVERNMENT HAS
BEEN VERY SUPPORTIVE.
THE ECONOMY IS GROWING
AND THE ENVIRONMENT
FOR FREEDOM OF
RELIGION IS IMPROVING.
IN THE 1970'S WE ONLY
HAD 30 OR 40 TEMPLES
HERE IN SHANGHAI.
IN THE 1990'S
THERE WERE 70.
AFTER 2000 THERE
WERE MORE THAN 80.
>>THOUSANDS OF TEMPLES ACROSS
CHINA ARE BEING REBUILT
AFTER DECADES OF DECAY
AND COMMUNIST NEGLECT.
HERE IN SHANGHAI ABOUT
100 OF THE CITY'S
1,000 TEMPLES HAVE
BEEN RESTORED.
ACROSS THE CITY FROM THE
FA ZANG JIANG TEMPLE,
THE SHANGHAI
JADE BUDDHA TEMPLE
FEELS LIKE
ANOTHER WORLD.
THIS IS ONE OF
CHINA'S RICHEST,
MOST FAMOUS TEMPLES.
THE CHARMED CENTER POINT
OF A BUDDHISM BOOM
IN A COUNTRY OF SUDDENLY
BOOMING NEW WEALTH,
IT'S A MAGNET FOR
CHINA'S NEWLY RICH.
IT'S ALSO A SHOPPING
AND DINING EXPERIENCE.
THE CONTRAST WITH LIFE AT
THE FA ZANG JIANG TEMPLE
COULDN'T BE STRONGER.
TRANSLATOR: A
LOT OF PEOPLE THINK
THE MATERIAL
WORLD IS GREAT.
BUT AFTER YOU HAVE
STUDIED BUDDHISM
AND BEEN INFLUENCED,
YOU DON'T SEE IT THAT WAY.
>>SIX HUNDRED MILES
NORTH, IN BEIJING,
CHINA'S MINISTER OF
RELIGION, YE XIAO WEN,
WONDERS WHERE THE
BUDDHISM BOOM IS GOING.
TRANSLATOR: MANY TEMPLES
GET RICH RAPIDLY.
HOW DO THEY ADAPT THEMSELVES
TO THE MARKET ECONOMY?
HOW TO SPEND
THEIR MONEY?
MONKS HAVE TO
ACCEPT SUPERVISION
AFTER THEY GET RICH.
THEY CANNOT
BECOME CORRUPT.
BUDDHISM IS AN OLD
RELIGION IN CHINA,
BUT IT NEVER ENCOUNTERED
SUCH A SITUATION.
MONEY FLOWS CEASELESSLY
INTO THE TEMPLES.
>>AS CHINA'S RISING
ECONOMIC TIDE TRANSFORMS
THE TEMPLES, MONKS
LIKE MASTER GUAN HUI
INSIST THE FUNDAMENTAL
PRACTICES OF SELF-DENIAL
AND BUDDHIST SERVICE
MUST NEVER CHANGE.
TRANSLATOR: I MADE
THE RIGHT CHOICE.
IT SUITS ME,
IT'S GOOD.
IF YOU CHOOSE THIS ROAD
YOU HAVE NO ANXIETIES,
YOU'RE HAPPY.
TRANSLATOR: THE GOVERNMENT
DOESN'T WANT TO RUN OUR
TEMPLE; WE DON'T WANT
TO BE RUN BY THEM.
IF WE ACCEPT
THEM MORE,
WE HAVE TO ACCEPT
THEIR MANAGEMENT.
>>ABBOTT JUE XING IS
THE 38-YEAR-OLD MASTER
OF THE JADE
BUDDHA TEMPLE.
BUT HE'S MUCH
MORE THAN THAT.
HE'S ALSO VICE-PRESIDENT
OF THE BUDDHIST
ASSOCIATION OF CHINA AND
A MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL
COMMITTEE OF THE CHINESE
COMMUNIST PARTY.
HE CREDITS BUDDHISM'S
SUDDEN NEW WEALTH WITH THE
RESURGENCE OF INDEPENDENT,
CONFIDENT TEMPLES.
TRANSLATOR: IF YOU
COME TO THE JADE TEMPLE
YOU THINK BUDDHISTS HAVE
DONATED LOTS OF MONEY,
BUT ACTUALLY IT'S
THE OPPOSITE.
IN SHANGHAI TEMPLES CAN
USUALLY SUPPORT THEMSELVES.
HERE IN SHANGHAI
WE HAVE THE SLOGAN
"THE TEMPLE FEEDS
THE TEMPLE".
THE GOVERNMENT DOESN'T
GIVE US MONEY.
IF IT DID, THE
GOVERNMENT WOULD RUN US.
WE SELL ENTRANCE
TICKETS FOR INCOME;
WE PERFORM RITUALS FOR FEES
- FOR EXAMPLE, FUNERALS.
WE ALSO RUN STORES WHERE
BUDDHISTS COME TO SHOP
FOR RITUAL OBJECTS.
AND WE HAVE A
VEGETARIAN RESTAURANT.
WE ARE ENTREPRENEURIAL
AND WE MAKE PROFITS
TO SUSTAIN OURSELVES.
TRANSLATOR: WE WERE
EDUCATED TO SEE RELIGION
AS OPIUM, AS SUPERSTITION,
FOR A LONG TIME.
SO PEOPLE ARE VERY
PESSIMISTIC ABOUT RELIGION.
BUT THOSE WHO UNDERSTAND
RELIGION KNOW THAT
BUDDHISM IS NOT
PESSIMISTIC BUT POSITIVE.
I'D LIKE TO SEE THE
BUDDHIST MESSAGE HEARD
EVERYWHERE AND EXIST
EVERYWHERE IN CHINA.
>>WHEN MINISTER YE WAS
APPOINTED TO THE JOB
17 YEARS AGO IT WAS
CONSIDERED A RELATIVELY
JUNIOR MINISTRY.
BUT IN THE BUILD-UP TO
THE BEIJING OLYMPICS
THE GOVERNMENT ANNOUNCED
THAT MANAGING RELIGION
IS ON ITS LIST OF
FIVE MAIN PRIORITIES.
TRANSLATOR: WE SHOULD HAVE
FIVE MAJOR PRIORITIES.
THESE INCLUDE RELATIONS
BETWEEN ETHNIC GROUPS,
BETWEEN RELIGIONS, BETWEEN
SOCIAL STRATA, AND BETWEEN
OUR COMPATRIOTS AT
HOME AND OVERSEAS.
RELIGION IS ONE
OF THE FIVE.
WE CONSIDER RELIGION
HIGHLY IMPORTANT.
>>AS CHINA'S TOP
RELIGIOUS OFFICIAL,
MINISTER YE STICKS TO
THE MIDDLE PATH BETWEEN
BUDDHIST TRADITIONALISTS
AND MODERNIZERS.
ABOVE ALL, HE STRESSES
NATIONAL UNITY.
TRANSLATOR: WE TREAT
RELIGIOUS PEOPLE AS OUR
INSEPARABLE BROTHERS
AND SISTERS.
TRANSLATOR: IN MY
VILLAGE EVERY HOUSE,
EVERY FAMILY PRAYS.
WE PRAY FOR
OUR ANCESTORS.
I BURN INCENSE
FOR MY PARENTS.
WE ALL DO THIS AT
NEW YEAR'S TIME.
>>MRS. LING BAO ZHU AND
HER HUSBAND ARE FARMERS
IN CHINA'S SOUTHERN
FUJIAN PROVINCE.
THEIR HOUSE ADJOINS
A VILLAGE TEMPLE
WHERE THE GODS
ARE NOT BUDDHIST
AND THEY ARE NOT
GOVERNMENT REGISTERED.
TRANSLATOR: IN THE
VILLAGE LOTS OF PEOPLE
PRACTICE
FOLK BELIEFS.
THIS IS PASSED DOWN
FROM OUR ANCESTORS
AND WILL
ALWAYS CONTINUE.
>>AT NEW YEAR'S, MRS. LING
LAYS OUT AN OFFERING TO
RECONNECT WITH THE GODS
THE FAMILY HAVE LOOKED TO
FOR GUIDANCE THROUGH
THE GENERATIONS...
EVEN THROUGH THE DARK
PERIODS OF THE CULTURAL
REVOLUTION WHEN MANY FOLK
TEMPLES WERE DESTROYED
AND WORSHIP
ITSELF WAS BANNED.
TRANSLATOR: THE
GOVERNMENT ATTITUDE TOWARD
FOLK BELIEFS HAS BROUGHT
A CONTRA VICTORY.
ON THE ONE HAND, THEY SAY
FOLK BELIEF MATCHES THE
DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIALISM
AND THE BELIEF IN MORALITY
AND BEAUTIFULNESS.
WHAT GOES AROUND
COMES AROUND.
ON THE OTHER HAND,
THERE'S A NEGATIVE PART,
A SORT OF
UNDEVELOPED THINKING.
FORTUNE TELLERS TELLING
THE FUTURE - THAT THINKING
CONTRADICTS OUR ATHEIST
COMMUNIST GOVERNMENT.
THAT'S A NEGATIVE.
>>PROFESSOR LIN GUOPING
OF FUZHOU UNIVERSITY
IS A WORLD EXPERT ON
POPULAR RELIGION HERE.
BUT EVEN SO, HE CAN
STILL GET LOST IN THESE
BACK ALLEYS LINED
WITH TEMPLES.
TRANSLATOR: THE
DOOR IS CLOSED.
WE CAN'T GET IN.
WHO HAS THE KEY?
>>ONCE HE'S FOUND WHAT
HE'S LOOKING FOR,
SURPRISES CAN'T
BE RULED OUT.
TODAY THE TEMPLE IS BEING
USED FOR TABLE GAMES
WITH A LITTLE MONEY
CHANGING HANDS.
TRANSLATOR: IT'S THE LING
FAMILY LINEAGE HALL.
THERE ARE THE DEAD
PEOPLES' NAMES
ON EACH WOODEN MARKER.
PEOPLE COME HERE TO
WATCH TV AND REST.
IT'S A LOT LIKE
A SENIOR'S CLUB.
TRANSLATOR: THE TEMPLE
USED TO BE VERY POOR
AND VERY SHABBY.
A LOT HAS BEEN
DONE TO REPAIR IT.
PEOPLE HAVE RETURNED TO
THE TEMPLE FOR SAFETY
AND A GOOD LIFE.
PEOPLE PRAY FOR
PEACE AND PROSPERITY,
FOR MORE MONEY.
SOME PEOPLE ARE
WORKING ABROAD.
THEIR FAMILIES COME
HERE TO PRAY FOR THEM.
>>PROFESSOR GUOPING NOTES
THAT FOLK BELIEFS ARE NOT
OFFICIALLY RECOGNIZED
RELIGIONS BUT
PRACTITIONERS ARE ALWAYS
UNDER GOVERNMENT SCRUTINY.
TRANSLATOR: ABOUT TWO
OR THREE YEARS AGO
REGULATIONS WERE INTRODUCED
TO MANAGE THE TEMPLES.
OUR FUJIAN RELIGION
DEPARTMENT HAS AN OFFICE
THAT MANAGES TAOISM
AND FOLK BELIEFS.
THEY'VE STARTED TO
MANAGE THESE THINGS.
>>HERE IN THE COASTAL
HILLS OF SOUTHERN FUJIAN
MANAGING RELIGIOUS
FERVOR IS A BIG JOB.
ALMOST EVERY HOME IN THE
DENSELY POPULATED REGION
HAS ITS OWN CHAPEL.
FAITH HEALING AND
FORTUNE TELLING
ARE BIG PARTS
OF RITUAL HERE.
THIS LADY IS CASTING STONES
TO PREDICT THE FUTURE.
SOME TEMPLES HERE PERFORM
EVEN MORE UNUSUAL RITUALS
ROOTED IN
FOLK BELIEFS.
(CHANTING)
AT THIS MOUNTAINSIDE
TAOIST TEMPLE,
PILGRIMS COME TO
SLEEP IN THE TEMPLE
AND THEN HAVE THEIR DREAMS
ANALYZED BY THE MONKS.
THIS IS A PRACTICE
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
DON'T ENCOURAGE.
TRANSLATOR: THERE ARE SOME
VERY OLD-FASHIONED IDEAS
THAT HAVE A NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON PEOPLE.
THIS IS VERY HARD
TO TALK ABOUT.
>>WENG XIN XIANG IS
A DOCTORAL STUDENT
RESEARCHING LOCAL RELIGIONS
IN HIS HOME VILLAGE.
HIS FAMILY HAVE
FARMED THE LAND HERE
FOR AS LONG AS
ANYONE CAN REMEMBER.
LIFE FOR OLD AND YOUNG
REVOLVES AROUND THE
FAMILY LINEAGE
HALL WHERE THEY COME
TO HONOR THEIR
ANCESTORS AND PRAY FOR
THEIR PEACE IN
THE AFTERLIFE.
WENG IS A SPECIALIST
ON THE CONVERGENCE
OF BUDDHISM, TAOISM,
CONFUCIANISM,
AND NUMEROUS MORE
ANCIENT LOCAL FAITHS
FUSING WITCHCRAFT
AND FAITH HEALING -
ACTIVITIES THE
GOVERNMENT IS SUPPRESSING.
TRANSLATOR: FOLK BELIEFS
ARE VERY POPULAR.
ALMOST EVERY HOME
HAS A GOD OF EARTH.
THERE ARE SEVERAL HUNDRED
TEMPLES OF THIS TYPE
IN THIS VILLAGE.
THERE ARE MORE
THAN 60 OR 70 TEMPLES
FOR THE GODDESS
OF THE SEA, MAZU.
THERE ARE THREE MUN
TEMPLES, LINEAGE HOUSES.
PEOPLE MIGRATED
HERE WITH BIG FAMILIES
TO DEVELOP
VACANT LAND.
THEY HAD A DIFFICULT TIME
WHEN THEY FIRST ARRIVED;
CONDITIONS WERE HARD.
THEY NEEDED
SPIRITUAL SUPPORT.
THEY UNITED AS FAMILY CLANS
TO DEAL WITH DIFFICULTIES
AND THIS IS THE ROOT
OF THE LINEAGE SYSTEM.
THEY RELY ON THE LINEAGE
SYSTEM TO UNITE TOGETHER.
THEY GATHER TO TALK
ABOUT BIG ISSUES
IN THEIR
LINEAGE HALLS.
MOST PEOPLE GO TO
THE LINEAGE HALLS
ON THE FIRST AND 15TH
DAYS OF THE MONTH.
WE HOPE OUR ANCESTORS
WILL PROTECT US.
SOME OF MY FAMILY MEMBERS
GO THERE EVERY DAY.
THEY ARE VERY DEVOTED.
THEY THINK THE
MORE YOU GO THERE,
THE MORE
PROTECTION YOU GET.
>>THERE ARE RITUAL
ACTIVITIES INVOLVING
FAITH HEALING,
FORTUNE TELLING,
SPIRIT MEDIUMS WHO
TALK WITH THE DEAD
WENG XIN XIANG IS
NOT WILLING TO DISCUSS.
OR AT LEAST NOT WITHIN
THE EARSHOT OF OFFICIALS
LIKE THIS ONE ASSIGNED TO
MONITOR FOREIGN JOURNALISTS.
TRANSLATOR: THERE'S SOME
REAL MYSTERIES AROUND
FOLK RELIGIONS.
SOME PEOPLE USE FOLK
BELIEFS TO CHEAT PEOPLE,
TO HARM SOCIETY -
FORTUNE TELLERS.
WE DO NOT PROMOTE THIS.
THE GOVERNMENT
SHOULD BAN IT.
TRANSLATOR: FOLK BELIEFS
ARE A BIG ISSUE.
THERE'S AN OLD
CHINESE SAYING,
"THREE FEET ABOVE THE
HEAD THERE ARE GODS".
CHINESE PEOPLE MAY NOT
BE RELIGIOUS, BUT WHEN
THEY LOOK UP, THREE FEET
ABOVE THEM THERE IS GOD.
FOLK RELIGIONS
ARE PREVALENT
BUT FOLK RELIGIONS ARE
NOT VIEWED AS RELIGIONS.
LET ME BE FRANK.
SINCE WE DON'T SEE FOLK
RELIGIONS AS RELIGION,
THEY ARE NOT WITHIN
MY RESPONSIBILITIES.
>>PERHAPS IT'S NO SURPRISE
CHINA'S MINISTER OF
RELIGION SAYS RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM CAN BE A PROBLEM.
TRANSLATOR: IN REGARD TO
IMPLEMENTING THE POLICIES
OF FREEDOM OF RELIGIOUS
BELIEF IN REGARD TO
RESPECTING CITIZENS'
RIGHTS, PROBABLY THERE ARE
PROBLEMS AT THE LOWER
LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT
IN SOME LOCAL AREAS.
>>AS OFFICIALS SCRAMBLE
TO REGULATE POPULAR
RELIGION IN FUJIAN,
MAJOR LINEAGE HALLS
HAVE BEEN
RE-ESTABLISHED.
THEY AGAIN PLAY AN
IMPORTANT ROLE.
THE GODS IN THESE TEMPLES
ARE NOT REGISTERED
IN BEIJING.
AGAINST THE WISHES OF
ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST
DETERMINED GOVERNMENTS,
THE TRADITIONAL OFFICIALLY
UNREGISTERED GODS ARE
RETURNING TO THEIR PLACE
IN CHINESE SOULS.
TRANSLATOR: I PRAY THAT
THE GODDESS BLESSES US
AND GIVES US PEACE.
>>AS BUDDHISM AND FOLK
RELIGIONS MAKE A COMEBACK,
CAN CHINA'S MOST POWERFUL
LEADERS BIND RELIGION
TO BUSINESS, POLITICS,
AND FOREIGN RELATIONS?
LIU CHANGLE IS THE HONG
KONG BASED OWNER OF
PHOENIX TV - A GLOBAL
SATELLITE TV NETWORK.
HE'S ONE OF CHINA'S
MOST POWERFUL BUDDHISTS
AND A KEEN OBSERVER OF
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT'S
EFFORTS TO HARNESS THE
EXPLOSION OF BUDDHISM
AND FOLK RELIGIONS
TO THE POLITICAL NEEDS
OF THE DICTATORSHIP.
THROUGH PHOENIX TV, MR.
LIU PUSHES THE MESSAGE
OF CHINA'S BUDDHIST
REVIVAL ACROSS CHINA
AND AROUND THE WORLD.
TRANSLATOR: WE HAD
AN OVERSEAS CHINESE
TV STATION WORLDWIDE.
THE CONNECTIONS AMONG
THESE COMMUNITIES
ARE IN OUR BUDDHIST ROOTS
AND CHINESE CULTURE.
MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE
THEM AND NEED THEM.
>>MR. LIU SUGGESTS BUDDHISM
IS A VERY PRO-BUSINESS
FAITH, BUT IN PUBLIC
SPEECHES AND INTERVIEWS
HE RAISES QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE BUDDHA BOOM.
TRANSLATOR: IF YOU REALLY
WANT TO PROMOTE BUDDHISM,
YOU MUST PREACH
THE PHILOSOPHY.
IT IS NOT ABOUT HOW
MANY TEMPLES YOU BUILD
OR HOW BIG
THE STATUES ARE.
IN BEIJING I'VE HEARD THEY
ARE PLANNING TO BUILD
A 200-METER
HIGH BUDDHA.
THAT IS SCARY.
IS IT NECESSARY
TO DO THIS?
>>UNDER GOVERNMENT CONTROL,
CHINA'S BUDDHA BOOM
SEEMS HEADED TOWARD A KIND
OF COMMUNIST GIGANTICISM
FORMERLY RESERVED
FOR STATUES OF MAO.
ON PUTUO ISLAND, HOME OF
THE BUDDHIST KUAN YIN
FESTIVAL, THE ANCIENT
LANDSCAPE IS RAPIDLY
BEING COLONIZED BY
A BUDDHISM INDUSTRY
WILLING TO COMMERCIALIZE
EVERY ASPECT
OF THIS GREAT
WORLD RELIGION,
INDISCRIMINATELY
MIXING IMAGES OF MAOISM
AND BUDDHISM, MILITARISM,
COMMERCIALISM,
AND SPIRITUALITY.
ON A TOUR OF
PUTUO ISLAND
LIU CHANGLE TAKES IN
THE ANCIENT SITES...
ALONG WITH THE GIANT
TEMPLE AND HOTEL COMPLEX
RISING AT THE FOOT
OF MOUNT PUTUO.
IT'S A FEAT OF
ENGINEERING,
BUT IS IT A FEAT OF
BUDDHIST DEVOTION?
TRANSLATOR: I THINK
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
HAS SUPPORTED
BUDDHISM AND RELIGION
UNLIKE EVER BEFORE.
BUT THEY NEED A
MORE POSITIVE,
EFFECTIVE METHOD
TO LEAD IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION
ON RELIGIOUS REFORM.
>>AS THE GOVERNMENT
HARNESSES BUDDHISM
TO ITS ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT VISION,
IT ALSO HAS A PLAN TO
PUT FOLK FAITHS TO WORK.
ON THE COAST OF FUJIAN,
PILGRIMS FLOCK TO GIANT
GOVERNMENT-BUILT FOLK
TEMPLES ARRAYED LIKE A
DEFENSE CORDON ALONG THE
STRAIT FACING TAIWAN,
THE BREAKAWAY STATE WHERE
DEMOCRACY HAS TAKEN ROOT.
THE GOVERNMENT IS IN MEGA
PROJECT MODE, BUT THE AIM,
SAYS PROFESSOR GUOPING
OF FUZHOU UNIVERSITY,
ACTUALLY SAYS MUCH
MORE ABOUT FOREIGN
RELATIONS POLICIES IN
FUJIAN THAN RELIGION.
TRANSLATOR: BECAUSE WE
HAVE FOLK BELIEFS WE CAN
ATTRACT FOREIGN AND
TAIWANESE INVESTMENTS
TO FUJIAN PROVINCE.
IN THE 1980'S
AND 1990'S,
TAIWANESE INVESTED IN
FUJIAN PROVINCE MOSTLY.
WE HAVE A BLOOD
RELATIONSHIP
AND WE HAVE THE
GODS IN COMMON.
>>AS BEIJING LINKS
BUDDHISM TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT, THE FOLK
RELIGIONS OF FUJIAN ARE
ALSO BEING BOOTSTRAPPED
TO GOVERNMENT AIMS.
>>THE VENERABLE DOCTOR
JING YIN HAS BEEN A MONK
FOR OVER 25 YEARS.
HE LIVES IN HONG KONG -
THE ONLY PLACE IN CHINA
WHERE OFFICIALS DON'T
MONITOR INTERVIEWS
WITH FOREIGN REPORTERS.
HE TRACKS CHINA'S
RELIGIOUS EXPLOSION
AS DIRECTOR OF
BUDDHIST STUDIES
AT HONG KONG
UNIVERSITY.
>>IN RECENT WRITINGS,
DR. JING YIN VIEWS
GOVERNMENT EFFORTS
TO "MANAGE" BUDDHISM
WITH SOME SUSPICION.
MANY SACRED SITES ARE NOW
BUDDHIST THEME PARKS,
HE SAYS.
STATE-SPONSORED BUDDHISM
IS BECOMING BIG BUSINESS
OF THE SORT THE
GOVERNMENT ENDORSES
IN SPORTS
AND THE ARTS.
>>JAMES MILLER IS A
PROFESSOR OF CHINESE
RELIGION AT QUEENS
UNIVERSITY IN ONTARIO.
HE BELIEVES CHINA'S
COMMUNIST GOVERNMENT
AIMS TO USE RELIGION AS
A STRATEGY FOR SURVIVAL.
THERE'S A CRISIS
OF BELIEF IN CHINA.
PEOPLE USED TO
BELIEVE IN COMMUNISM
AND THAT ISN'T
THE CASE ANYMORE.
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING
FOR ALTERNATIVES
AND RELIGION
IS ONE OF THESE.
ALSO, THE GOVERNMENT
IS USING RELIGION
AS A KIND OF LEVER
TO PROMOTE NATIONALISM,
TO PROMOTE
CHINESE CULTURE,
TO PROP UP ITS
OWN SUPPORT AMONGST THE PEOPLE.
TRANSLATOR: I HOPE
BUDDHISM WILL BE FURTHER
PROMOTED AND RESTORED
IN THIS SPECIAL TIME.
>>CHINA'S MOST POWERFUL
LEADERS AIM TO
BIND RELIGION TO
BUSINESS, POLITICS,
AND FOREIGN RELATIONS.
I AM VERY HAPPY TO
BE HERE WITH YOU.
THIS TIME I'M
SPEAKING TO YOU
AS AN HONORARY CITIZEN
OF THIS COUNTRY.
>>AS THE WORLD'S MOST
REVERED BUDDHIST,
THE DALAI LAMA, HEAD OF THE
TIBETAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE,
POSSIBLY KNOWS MORE
ABOUT RELIGION IN CHINA
THAN ANYONE
ELSE ALIVE.
AND A LOT OF WHAT HE'S
SEEN THROUGH THE DECADES
SINCE THE CHINESE FORCED
HIM OUT OF HIS COUNTRY
HASN'T BEEN PRETTY.
SIXTY YEARS AFTER THE
CHINESE CLAIMED TIBET
AND ITS THREE
MILLION INHABITANTS,
THE DALAI LAMA
PROTESTS WHAT HE TERMS
"A CULTURAL GENOCIDE".
BY SOME ESTIMATES, AS MANY
AS A MILLION TIBETANS DIED
AND SIX THOUSAND
MONASTERIES AND TEMPLES
WERE DESTROYED BY
CHINESE OFFICIALS.
IN THE DAYS BEFORE THE
TORCH WAS LIT TO LAUNCH
THE BEIJING OLYMPICS
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
UNLEASHED A HEAVILY
ARMED RESPONSE
TO PROTESTS AMONG
MONKS AND TIBETANS.
WESTERN SUPPORT OF THE DALAI
LAMA CONTINUES TO GROW.
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
SAYS IT WILL NOT NEGOTIATE
WITH A SEPARATIST.
THE DALAI LAMA
DENIES BEING THAT.
TIBETAN BUDDHISM ISN'T
JUST ABOUT SPIRITUALITY.
TRADITIONALLY, THE
BUDDHIST LEADERS IN TIBET
HAVE ALSO BEEN THE
LEADERS OF THE COUNTRY.
AND THEREFORE, FOR THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT,
THE QUESTION OF TIBETAN
BUDDHISM IS ESSENTIALLY
A POLITICAL QUESTION:
WHO HAS AUTHORITY
OVER THE
LAND OF TIBET?
>>JAMES MILLER OF QUEENS
UNIVERSITY SAYS BEIJING
HAS BEEN TOUGH ON
TIBETAN BUDDHISM
BECAUSE OF ITS
POLITICAL CORE.
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT IS
VERY HAPPY TO TOLERATE
RELIGION SO LONG AS IT
CONFINES ITSELF TO THESE
KINDS OF SPIRITUAL
QUESTIONS - QUESTIONS OF
BELIEF AND PRACTICE AND
THAT KIND OF THING
- BUT WHEN A RELIGION
SPILLS OVER INTO THE
POLITICAL ARENA,
THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT IS DANGEROUS FOR
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
AND THIS IS THE BIG
PROBLEM THAT THEY HAVE
IN DEALING WITH THE
DALAI LAMA AND TIBET.
>>BUT POLITICAL BUDDHISM
IN TIBET ISN'T THE ONLY
RELIGIOUS THORN
DIGGING AT BEIJING.
IN 1999 THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT, WHICH WAS
GRADUALLY RELAXING
RELIGIOUS RESTRICTIONS,
GOT A NASTY SHOCK WHEN
10,000 WORSHIPPERS
STAGED A SURPRISE RALLY
IN CENTRAL BEIJING.
A POLICE CRACKDOWN
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWED.
PUBLIC EVENTS IN CENTRAL
BEIJING ARE TIGHTLY
CONTROLLED - ESPECIALLY
NEAR THE HOLY SHRINE OF
CHINESE COMMUNISM, THE
TOMB OF MAO TSE-TUNG.
THE WORSHIPPERS WERE
MEMBERS OF A NEW RELIGIOUS
MOVEMENT CALLED FALUN GONG
WHICH USED A RANGE OF
POWERFUL SYMBOLS TO
WEAVE TOGETHER ELEMENTS
OF BUDDHISM, TAOISM,
CONFUCIANISM,
AND TRADITIONAL HEALING
PRACTICES KNOWN AS QIGONG.
AT THE HEAD OF THE FALUN
GONG IS LI HONGZHI,
A CHARISMATIC LEADER AND
FORMER COMMUNIST OFFICIAL
EXILED IN AMERICA WHO
BUNDLED HIS KNOWLEDGE OF
BUDDHISM AND OTHER FAITHS
INTO A NEW PACKAGE.
IN THIS RARE 1999
INTERVIEW HE ADDRESSED
OFFICIAL CLAIMS HE
ATTRACTED 100 MILLION
FOLLOWERS WITHOUT
GOVERNMENT APPROVAL.
TRANSLATOR: FOR ORDINARY
PEOPLE FALUN GONG HAS A
MIRACLE EFFECT TO CURE
PEOPLE OF THEIR ILLNESSES.
>>THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
IS NOT AMUSED BY
FALUN GONG, CLAIMING
IT IS CONTROLLED FROM
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY BY
A MAN ABOVE CHINESE LAW.
THE FALUN GONG WAS
BANNED AND FOLLOWERS
WERE RUTHLESSLY
REPRESSED, ACCORDING TO
NUMEROUS CREDIBLE
HUMAN RIGHTS AGENCIES.
TRANSLATOR: WE DON'T GET
INVOLVED IN POLITICS.
IT IS TABOO FOR
PRACTITIONERS
TO GET INVOLVED
IN POLITICS.
I ALWAYS TELL MY
PRACTITIONERS, IF THEY
DON'T LOVE THEIR ENEMY
THEY WON'T BE ENLIGHTENED.
>>EVEN AS CHINA
LIBERALIZES RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM, ASSERTING CONTROL
WHETHER IN TIBET, BEIJING,
OR ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE
COUNTRY IS A CONSTANT
THEME FOR RELIGION
MINISTER YE XIAO WEN.
TRANSLATOR: NO ONE CAN
EXPECT THE RISEN CHINESE
TO SWALLOW
BITTER FRUIT
THAT WOULD HARM ITS
FUNDAMENTAL INTERESTS.
WE CANNOT SWALLOW IT.
>>WHILE ACKNOWLEDGING THAT
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
IS FAR FROM PERFECT,
THE MINISTER PROTESTS
AGAINST FOREIGN
CRITICISM.
TRANSLATOR: CHINA IS
NOT ALL SO PERFECT.
THERE ARE MANY PLACES TO
BE DEVELOPED AND IMPROVED.
WE KNOW THERE ARE
MANY PROBLEMS.
BUT CHINA IS
NOT SO BAD
AS IT IS IN SOME
PEOPLES' EYES.
THE FOREIGN MEDIA,
ESPECIALLY THE ONES
IN THE U.S., MANY
ARE RIGHT-WING.
WHATEVER THE
CASE IS,
THEY WOULD SAY
THAT YOU ARE BAD.
AND THE MEDIA LIKE TO
REPORT NEGATIVE THINGS.
DOG BITING MAN
IS NOT NEWS,
BUT MAN BITING
DOG IS NEWS.
THE MEDIA STIR THINGS UP
AND PEOPLE GET AGITATED.
TRANSLATOR: WE ARE
TEACHING PEOPLE HOW TO
IMPROVE THEMSELVES,
HOW TO BE KIND.
IF YOU ELEVATE YOURSELF TO
A HIGH LEVEL OF THINKING,
HOW CAN THEY CALL
US AN EVIL CULT?
CHINESE HISTORY IS
LITTERED WITH EXAMPLES
WHERE RELIGIOUS MOVEMENTS
HAVE BECOME POLITICAL
AND HAVE THREATENED THE
LEGITIMACY OF DYNASTIC
RULERS AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT FEARS CAN HAPPEN
IN THE PRESENT DAY AS WELL.
>>AT THE JADE
TEMPLE IN SHANGHAI,
ABBOT JUE CONCEDES
FALUN GONG ILLUSTRATED
A POWERFUL YEARNING.
TRANSLATOR: WHEN THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT
DENOUNCED FALUN GONG I
WONDERED HOW THEY COULD
HAVE ATTRACTED SO MANY
PRACTITIONERS SO QUICKLY.
WE CONCLUDED OUR
REAL RELIGION
WAS NOT VIGOROUSLY
PROMOTED;
THAT GAVE SPACE
TO AN EVIL CULT.
>>TO WARD OFF RELIGIOUS
THREATS TO THE
CHINESE REGIME,
ONLY FIVE RELIGIONS
- BUDDHISM, TAOISM,
ISLAMISM, CATHOLICISM,
AND PROTESTANTISM - CAN
BE LEGALLY PRACTICED.
EVERY RELIGIOUS SITE
IN CHINA HAS RULES
GRANTING THESE FIVE
FAITHS EXCLUSIVE ACCESS
TO THE SOULS OF NEARLY
A FIFTH OF HUMANITY.
IN SHANGHAI THE RELIGIOUS
AFFAIRS BUREAU HAS ISSUED
62 RULES TO MAINTAIN
LAWFUL SUPERVISION
OVER RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS AND
TO PROMOTE THE BUILDING
OF A MODERN
SOCIALIST SOCIETY.
THESE RULES REQUIRE
OFFICIAL APPROVAL FOR ALL
RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES AND
FORBID RELIGIOUS DIVERSITY
AND FREEDOM OUTSIDE
GOVERNMENT CONTROL.
MANY FORMS OF RELIGIOUS
DEBATE ARE FORBIDDEN.
RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS
ACROSS CHINA
ARE SWOLLEN WITH
SECURITY AGENTS.
THEY CROWD INTO
EVERY PICTURE.
NEITHER THE MONKS NOR
THE WORSHIPPERS CAN EVER
FORGET THAT THEY ARE BEING
WATCHED AND THAT THE RULES
RESTRICTING RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM WILL BE ENFORCED.
TRANSLATOR: FOR THE
CHINESE GOVERNMENT
THE EXISTENCE OF
RELIGIONS IS A FACT.
WE SHOULD TREAT THEM
CORRECTLY, GUIDE THEM
POSITIVELY, AND BRING THEM
INTO THEIR POSITIVE ROLES
WHILE ADMINISTERING
THEM BY LAW
SO THEY WON'T
CAUSE NEW CHAOS.
TRANSLATOR: SOCIETY IS
DEVELOPING RAPIDLY
AND PEOPLES' SPIRITUAL
NEEDS ARE MULTIPLYING.
IN THE PAST DAYS OF
THE PLANNED ECONOMY
MOST PEOPLE
STAYED AT HOME.
NOW THEIR WORLD IS
BECOMING DIVERSE
AND THE MEDIA
REVEALS MORE OF IT.
WITH GROWING
SPIRITUAL NEEDS,
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
IN RELIGION INCREASES
AS WELL AS THE
NUMBER OF RELIGIONS.
THE GOVERNMENT
ACKNOWLEDGES THE EXISTENCE
OF RELIGIONS AND IT WANTS
TO TREAT THEM AND GUIDE
THEM IN A CORRECT WAY, LET
THEM PLAY POSITIVE ROLES.
THE GROWTH IN
RELIGIOUS OBSERVANCE
SHOULD NOT BE
ALLOWED TO DAMAGE
NON-RELIGIOUS
PEOPLES' RIGHTS.
WE MUST PROTECT THEIR
LEGAL RIGHTS TOO.
SO RELIGIOUS AND
NON-RELIGIOUS PEOPLE
SHOULD HOLD TOGETHER
TO WORK POSITIVELY.
THIS IS THE ATTITUDE OF
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.
>>IN A COUNTRY WHERE
PEOPLE FROM ALL PATHS
OF LIFE REMAIN
IRREPRESSIBLY RELIGIOUS,
PERHAPS IT'S NO SURPRISE
THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
IS GIVING UP ON ITS ONCE
IRON-CLAD COMMITMENT
TO BUILDING AN
ATHEIST FUTURE
SCRUBBED CLEAN OF ALL
THE TRAPPINGS OF RELIGIOSITY.
>>BEIJING SEEMS TO HAVE
COME TO THE REALIZATION
THAT MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE, LIKE HONG KONG
TAXI DRIVER,
CHUNG BIN LEI,
WILL NEVER YIELD THEIR
BUDDHIST DEVOTION.
♪
TRANSLATOR: EVERYTHING
SEEMS VERY SMOOTH TO ME.
I'VE BEEN A TAXI
DRIVER SO LONG
AND NEVER HAD
AN ACCIDENT.
THE BUDDHA
PROTECTS ME.
AND I'M LUCKY
WITH MY FAMILY
- MY KIDS ARE
ALL GOOD.
BECAUSE WE ARE BUDDHISTS WE
CAN COMMUNICATE TOGETHER.
BUDDHISM BRINGS
PEACE TO OUR FAMILY.
I DRIVE A CAR
EVERY DAY.
MY JOB IS DANGEROUS,
SO I CARRY A BUDDHA
ON A NECKLACE TO KEEP
ME SAFE AND PROTECT ME.
THIS ONE IS A
THAI BUDDHA.
THIS IS THE
KUAN YIN BUDDHA.
THEY ARE VERY RESPONSIVE
TO MY PRAYERS,
THAT'S WHY I
ALWAYS CARRY THEM.
TRANSLATOR: PEOPLE
FROM PUTUO ISLAND
KNOW HOW TO PRAY.
EVEN WHEN THEY'RE LITTLE
IT IS NATURAL FOR THEM.
>>PERHAPS THIS MAN BEST
KNOWS THE ANSWER TO THE
RIDDLE OF WHETHER CHINA'S
ATHEIST RULERS CAN HARNESS
THE EXPLOSION OF
BUDDHISM, FOLK FAITHS,
AND OTHER RELIGIONS
SWEEPING THE COUNTRY.
ZHANG JIN GUO HAS
LIVED ALL HIS 58 YEARS
ON PUTUO ISLAND.
HE WAS BORN THE YEAR THE
COMMUNISTS TOOK POWER
AND RAISED BY
BUDDHISTS WITH ROOTS
IN THE RELIGION
GOING BACK CENTURIES.
HE WORKS AS A GATEKEEPER
IN A TEMPLE PARK,
BUT LIKE MOST
WORKERS IS TOO POOR
TO SHARE IN
THE BUDDHISM BOOM.
TRANSLATOR: MOST
PEOPLE ON PUTUO ISLAND
ARE BUDDHISTS
LIKE ME.
I LISTEN TO THE OLD
PEOPLE TELL ME THAT
KUAN YIN BUDDHA
IS A SAVIOR THAT
WILL TAKE US
THROUGH HARDSHIP.
DURING THE CULTURAL
REVOLUTION ALL OF
THE TEMPLES HERE
WERE DESTROYED.
THEY DESTROYED
THE BUDDHAS,
BUT WE STILL PRAYED.
THE BUDDHA WAS
IN MY HEART.
>>IT WAS HERE IN THE BACK
ROOM OF MR. ZHANG'S
TWO-ROOM HOUSE THAT
HE HID A SMALL ALTAR
TO THE BUDDHA AND
PRAYED IN SECRET
DURING THE DARKEST YEARS
OF THE CULTURAL REVOLUTION.
CHINESE SPIRITUALITY,
HISTORY SUGGESTS,
RUNS DEEPER THAN ANY
GOVERNMENT CAN REACH.
CHINA'S FUTURE HANGS
ON HOW THAT MESSAGE
IMPACTS ON MORE
THAN A BILLION SOULS.
TRANSLATOR: DURING THE
CULTURAL REVOLUTION
THE RED GUARDS
DESTROYED THE TEMPLES
AND KICKED
OUT THE MONKS.
IF YOU STEAL
FROM EVERYBODY
THE WHOLE SOCIETY
BECOMES CHAOTIC.
WHEN WE
BECOME BUDDHISTS
THE WHOLE COUNTRY
IS AT PEACE.
TRANSLATOR: I PRAY THAT
MY SON AND MY GRANDSON
HAVE A GOOD FUTURE.
TRANSLATOR:
THERE ARE 76 MILLION
COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS,
BUT 1.3 BILLION CHINESE.
THEY CAN'T ALL BE
EXPECTED TO BE COMMUNISTS,
SO SHOULD THEY
HAVE NO BELIEFS?
I THINK IT'S POSSIBLE
FOR THE GOVERNMENT
TO TRY TO CONTROL THE
OUTWARD MANIFESTATION
OF RELIGION IN
THE PUBLIC SPHERE.
BUT WE KNOW THAT RELIGION
IS ALSO A DEEPLY PRIVATE
MATTER FORMED IN TERMS OF
PEOPLES' OWN RELIGIOUS
EXPERIENCES AND THIS
HAPPENS DEEP INSIDE PEOPLE
AND THIS IS SOMETHING
GOVERNMENTS CANNOT CONTROL
BY LEGISLATIVE FIAT
OR BY PUBLIC EDUCATION
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
TRANSLATOR: I AM TEACHING
MY GRANDDAUGHTER
SIMPLE BUDDHIST
PRINCIPLES.
FOR THE DIFFICULT
THINGS I WILL WAIT.
WE ALL WANT TO
BE BUDDHISTS.
WE ARE THE CHILDREN OF
THE KUAN YIN BUDDHA.